# Rink Web 2

I recently spent a few days working on a rewrite for [Rink
Web](https://rinkcalc.app), as the old interface had not aged well and
was very difficult to maintain. The tech it was built on is also
fundamentally incompatible with my goals, which was to make Rink Web
into a PWA.

## Project Overview

The basic idea was to compile `rink-core` to Web Assembly and then write
some type of frontend application in Typescript. I had not decided what
framework I wanted to use when I started the project.

There were a few requirements I had for whatever framework I decided to use:

- It needed to at least have a path forward for both supporting an
  offline PWA as well as supporting server side rendering.
- I wanted to avoid webpack and `create-react-app`. These tools are very
  cumbersome, and when they break it's hard to know what went wrong. I
  could never get Web Workers to work with webpack, much less Rust.

Initially I'd started hashing something out using Parcel and
`lit-element`. I like Parcel a lot because it kind of just works without
requiring hours of tinkering with config files. However, the path
forward with `lit-element` didn't seem great, it would be really hard to
do anything other than a client-only SPA with it.

Once I had some basic frontend code hashed out, I started working on
`rink-js` which is a JS binding to `rink-core`. I used `wasm-bindgen`
for this and it worked out really well.

The PR with the changes can be found [here][1]. It has 79 commits, which
added 12 000 and removed 3000 lines of code across 120 files.

[1]: https://github.com/tiffany352/rink-rs/pull/62

## About Sapper

I ended up using Sapper for the actual app, which is a frontend and
backend framework that uses Svelte. Sapper's main focus is on building
apps that support server-side rendering (SSR) seamlessly and hydrate the
DOM client side instead of re-rendering the whole page. From using it so
far, it does that really well.

Svelte is another reactive UI framework, similar to React and
`lit-element`. It's a bit different from both of them though, in that
it's actually a compiler that processes your components. Component files
are named with a `*.svelte` extension and the top level is actually HTML
rather than JS, so a basic component ends up looking like this:

```svelte
<script lang="typescript">
  let count: number = 0;

  function handleClick() {
    count += 1;
  }
</script>

<style>
  button {
    background-color: rgb(200, 100, 100);
  }
</style>

<p>Current value: {count}.</p>
<button on:click={handleClick}>
  Increment
</button>
```

The [website][2] for Svelte has a lot more examples.

[2]: https://svelte.dev/examples#reactive-assignments

Sapper is a framework that takes advantage of the compile step involved
in turning these component definitions into actual code. It actually
compiles each component twice: Once for the client side, and once in a
server-side rendering context.

It also has some opinionated views on how routing in a framework should
work. It actually has you specify routes by having a folder
`src/routes/` where the file structure determines how the route will
work. For example, the route `/query/[input]` corresponds to
[`src/routes/query/[input].svelte`][3] in Rink.

[3]: https://github.com/tiffany352/rink-rs/blob/master/web/src/routes/query/%5Binput%5D.svelte

Overall it still has some rough edges. At the time of writing,
Typescript support in Svelte only landed 2 weeks ago. I ran into a lot
of issues while developing Rink Web, but almost all of them I did manage
to get past.

It also actually has to integrate with whatever bundler you use, due to
being a compiler. As of writing, Sapper only supports webpack and
Rollup. I went with Rollup for Rink.

I've been really happy with how quickly I can throw apps together using
these tools, it's something I haven't really found with anything else.
And as if that wasn't good enough on its own, I get SSR nearly for free,
and don't have to worry about shipping a massive JavaScript blob.

## This Blog

After releasing the new Rink Web, I went and redid this blog to use
Sapper instead of Jekyll. Part of why I never write blog posts is that
every time I want to, I have to install a huge pile of Ruby tooling, and
it's always really painful to get working.

I actually lost the copy of the Git repo which had my most recent blog
post before this, from 2018. I had to find an HTML to Markdown converter
to restore it.

It took about a day to rewrite the blog tooling, and I think it was
worth it. I get a lot more control over how it looks and things like
Markdown processing.
